# Polis EU Tech Group Meeting - 2026/03/06

who's here? (8 ppl) patcon, mike, arnar, guido, brendan, raimo, raoul, tarmo, timo

## Work progress on renaming Voxit

	* Partici API server -> voxit-api-server
	* Partici WebComponents -> voxit-web-components
	* Partici WebClient -> voxit-web-client
	* etc. see https://gitlab.com/voxit
	* Mike asks: AGPL-3+ compliance Polis code base
	* #todo `docker compose up` working by monday (guido)
		* uses submodules. helpful. need to update.
		* will add CI and typesript checks after hackathon
		* will do `npm install` for eventual frontend
		* ++timo for funding
	* ...
	* ...
	* ...License requires that there is a link to the exact source code

## One word on Polis Scalability Study

	* What to read...
	* worked on by Mike + Guido + Raoul + Stefan
	* did we miss something? is a Q mike has
		* if anyone has ideas that could be added to study
		* #todo share link to study? (mike)
			* on onedrive
		* #todo Please read chapter 6 - Innovations (all)
	* meant to be very skimmable and summarizable. read before arrival.
	* #idea can generate summaries for diff amounts of reading time (patcon)

## On documenting our work...

	* Tech notes == vs. != stakeholder notes (different tool chain / same tool chain)
		* we are not hosting anything. mike offered 
		* can collab work on docs with markdown editor. a bit tricky. 2 ppl in one editor means one gets kicked out. not like etherpad
		* nextcloud was more targetted for non-tech users. familiar for gov folks. universal file usage.
		* mike prefers more convenience and smooth process
		* maybe we want to store our stuff where dev is happening
		* pc: my old co-operative does things like this: https://meetings.hypha.coop/
		* should we have our own little ecosystem for doing stuff?
		* https://sitra2fi-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/tarmo_toikkanen_sitra_fi/IgDEo-s3nzzhT6Kq46t4x2e2AV7z590xEJ726HNo0ajhaTQ?e=cOW3Ko
		* raoul: public to help new develpers come in 
		* patcon: pro Etherpad
		* Mike: nothing locally / technically should be needed, so that everyone could use the toolchain proposed
		* patcon: CI driven publishing of notes
		* Raoul: stuff (docs) should live where the code is (Etherpad -> GitLab -> staticsite builder / copy to Nextcloud folder)
		* Raoul: readable by all, but techie-toolchain
		* Raoul: use markdown (something that's readable as plaintext)
		* Guido: see Raoul... (same endformat for both technical + non-technical people)
		* Guido: kind of automation
		* raoul shared: https://pad.betabreak.net/features   https://pad.betabreak.net/eXsk7A4uQv6EiMEx_rPRpg?both
		* Mike: for Monday/Tuesday
		* patcon: Setup shortlinks for famous work items that we produce #idea
			* #todo set up demo/proposal for hackathon (patcon)
			* chosen keywords always resolve to documents/services
		* Tarmo:https://github.com/alanhogan/lessnmore
		* Raimo: public website? Host on voxit.org
		* Guido: docs.voxit.org (also used to be available for PolisNL / Particiapp)
		* Timo: Talk to Linda from COSS ry who is operating the website
		* patcon (on chat): maybe use https://hackmd.io/ instead of Etherpad?
		* Brendan: important to be ready to revert. Let's not get a finnicky tool chain for docwriting into our way

	* Tool for collaboratively taking notes
	* Storing notes, accessing notes
	* Are these public meetings with public notes?
	* Who is responsible?
	* ...
	* ...
