# Polis EU Tech Group Meeting - 2026/03/06

patcon is migrating here for testing archive scripts: (pls ping him if making edits) https://hackmd.io/ykkXKEYKRpKoYo0E6iUj7g?view

who's here? (9 ppl) patcon, mike, arnar, guido, brendan, raimo, raoul, tarmo, timo

## Work progress on renaming Voxit

* Partici API server -> voxit-api-server
* Partici WebComponents -> voxit-web-components
* Partici WebClient -> voxit-web-client
* etc. see https://gitlab.com/voxit
* Mike asks: AGPL-3+ compliance Polis code base
* #todo `docker compose up` working by monday (guido)
    * uses submodules. helpful. need to update.
    * will add CI and typesript checks after hackathon
    * will do `npm install` for eventual frontend
    * ++timo for funding
* License requires that there is a link to the exact source code

## One word on Polis Scalability Study

* What to read...
* worked on by Mike + Guido + Raoul + Stefan
* did we miss something? is a Q mike has
    * if anyone has ideas that could be added to study
    * #todo share link to study? (mike)
        * on onedrive
    * #todo Please read chapter 6 - Innovations (all)
* meant to be very skimmable and summarizable. read before arrival.
* #idea can generate summaries for diff amounts of reading time (patcon)

## On documenting our work...

* Tech notes == vs. != stakeholder notes (different tool chain / same tool chain)
* Tool for collaboratively taking notes
* Storing notes, accessing notes
* Who is responsible?
    * we are not hosting anything. mike offered 
    * can collab work on docs with markdown editor. a bit tricky. 2 ppl in one editor means one gets kicked out. not like etherpad
    * nextcloud was more targetted for non-tech users. familiar for gov folks. universal file usage.
    * mike prefers more convenience and smooth process
    * maybe we want to store our stuff where dev is happening
    * pc: my old co-operative does things like this: https://meetings.hypha.coop/
    * should we have our own little ecosystem for doing stuff?
    * https://sitra2fi-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/tarmo_toikkanen_sitra_fi/IgDEo-s3nzzhT6Kq46t4x2e2AV7z590xEJ726HNo0ajhaTQ?e=cOW3Ko
    * raoul: public to help new develpers come in 
    * patcon: pro Etherpad
    * Mike: nothing locally / technically should be needed, so that everyone could use the toolchain proposed
    * patcon: CI driven publishing of notes
    * Raoul: stuff (docs) should live where the code is (Etherpad -> GitLab -> staticsite builder / copy to Nextcloud folder)
    * Raoul: readable by all, but techie-toolchain
    * Raoul: use markdown (something that's readable as plaintext)
    * Guido: see Raoul... (same endformat for both technical + non-technical people)
    * Guido: kind of automation
    * raoul shared: https://pad.betabreak.net/features   https://pad.betabreak.net/eXsk7A4uQv6EiMEx_rPRpg?both
    * Mike: for Monday/Tuesday
    * patcon: Setup shortlinks for famous work items that we produce #idea
        * #todo set up demo/proposal for hackathon (patcon)
        * chosen keywords always resolve to documents/services
    * Tarmo:https://github.com/alanhogan/lessnmore
    * Raimo: public website? Host on voxit.org
    * Guido: docs.voxit.org (also used to be available for PolisNL / Particiapp)
    * Timo: Talk to Linda from COSS ry who is operating the website
    * patcon (on chat): maybe use https://hackmd.io/ instead of Etherpad?
    * Brendan: important to be ready to revert. Let's not get a finnicky tool chain for docwriting into our way - need to walthrough non-technical (and technical!) people
    * General discussion about how to make documentation tools accessible to technical and non-technical people
    * testing redaction: ███
    * patcon: Has been running various projects with documentation tool chains, PoCs are easily at hand
        * prior art: https://github.com/civicTechTO/civictechto-scripts
        * prior art: https://github.com/hyphacoop/worker-coop-scripts
        * made demo: https://github.com/patcon/voxit-scripts/
    * Guido: Git-based CMS / Wikis (to see conveniently who changed what) --> Grav CMS
    * Brendan: Decap CMS is a Git based CMS - lots of others available
    * patcon: hackmd.io -- still has split view
    * Tarmo: Free-to-use Etherpad by a Finnish NGO. https://muistio.tieke.fi/ (backup emergency tool if all else fails?)
    * a redacted paragraph example: █████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████████
* Raoul sets up etherpad too
* Are these public meetings with public notes?
        * patcon: privacy notes vs. public notes (use strike-through to denote what is private and what not)
    * Brendan: as civil servant I can't say things that are too political
    * Timo: maybe post-edit notes having been taken, maybe people think two weeks later that they are not happy about what they said back then and better not have it published
    * Mike: Have a process for 'off the record' comments/discussion
    * Florian: Everybody should have had a chance to have a say in this at least once before we make a decision.
    * mike: maybe we could have standup meetings, and bigger meetings.
        * maybe process can vary.
* Discussion about Polis vs. Voxit
